Sentences Questions:

what is python?
high level oop language with with auto memory management. portable as it can run on variety of platforms
interpretted , dynamic typing

advantages of python
free, portable, oo, built in data strctures

immutable vs mutable types
mutable - changable

how is python interpreted?
code is executed from the source code. the source code goes through an interpretter. which goes to an intermediate then native language


immutable - unchangable
strings
numbers

pass statement
-syntactical but no operation

break vs continue vs pass
break - causes program to exit from current loop level when condition is met
continue - returns control to beginning of loop, causes program to skip all remaining statements in current iteration
pass - pass by without executing code

Interpretted language - doesn't have to be compiled.
-other examples of interpretted are php ruby

dynamically typed - don't have to declare the type of thing you want
- don't need to type: string, int bool
unlike java

python can be slow - what are some ways to optimize
-can use C based extensions - numpy, library for calculating numbers


python dictionary datatype - its a hash table that has a key value pair. indexed by keys. accessing keys have a time complexity of o(1)

*args, *kwargs
-*args means you don't know how many arguments are going to be passed into that function


negative index in python
- 0 is the first, -1 is the last, -2 is the one before that, etc. get ending value of a list, loop backwards in a list


try, except, else
- it will try whatever is in the try block
- if there is an exception, it will do the exception block
-else happens when there is no error.

// floor division
- do the division and floor the output. 5.2 -> 5


how to randomize a list
- import random
- use shuffle library

how is memory managed - uses heap space
taken care of on the backend by python


are arguments passed by value or ref
everything is passed by objects, variables are pointing to references






how can we swap two variables without using a third temp variable
parallel assigning
a,b = b,a